so here's this week's key question which
is faster around the tight and twisty
infield track at Rockingham Motor
Speedway it works Honda BTCC car a works
Honda British Superbike or on a clarin
mp4 12c spider I guess it must seem
slightly mad to be comparing a road car
with a full-on British Touring Car and a
full-on British Superbike but actually
if you do the maths the old McLaren
could actually stand a bit of a chance
here because it doesn't weigh that much
more than the touring car weighs just
under 1500 kilograms whereas the minimum
weight for the touring car is 1280 okay
there's a difference there but it's not
a gigantic and the trade-off of that is
that the McLaren of course has 630 old
horsepower whereas the touring car
they've just told me only has about 350
maybe 360 if they run a little bit more
boost so really in a straight line
the McLaren should absolutely demolish
the touring car
the bike however is another matter that
weighs about 160 kilograms before you
stick a rider on it and yet it's got
very nearly 200 horsepower it has got
200 horsepower so when you do the mass
with that the bike in a straight line
should just be incredible and it is I've
already seen him having a little
practice run on it
it just goes from over there to over
there in one blink of one eye it's
extraordinary how fast it looks so I
don't know we'll try a lap time in the
McLaren and we'll do a bit of data
crunching and and see where we end up
strike the BTCC car realistic services
of Gordon Shedden aka flash who very
nearly won the championship this year
driving this very car
like we persuaded twenty-three-year-old
wonderboy Alex Lowe's to doll it was
episode Samson under overalls in which
he clinched the British Superbike
Championship this year at Brands Hatch
and of course
muggins here got to drive them a clown
you cannot complain about the poke of
the McLaren it feels I would suggest a
lot quicker than the touring car surely
in a straight line
the trouble is though it doesn't develop
the mid corner grip I'm having to break
miles earlier than I suspect Gordon is
in the touring car and even the traction
actually now that the rear tires are
starting to go off isn't that great I
mean there's no wheel spin there but I'm
not really getting as much as I need
from the back end of this car and now
the brakes have just started to go a
little bit as well it is a very hot day
though
oh it's just the difference between
absolutely bespoke competition car and
something that you could drive home in
at night and then down to Sainsbury's in
the next day okay what do I think I
reckon if the McLaren can get within
four four seconds of the Touring Car it
will be doing in credibly well
considering your number plates on if it
can get within eight seconds of the bike
I'll be amazed because the bike this
looks outrageous yeah let's see let's
have a look at some data before we do
that have a look at this we just went
out and did a few warm-up laps for the
cameras here basically we put Alex on
the Superbike up front so that he could
set the pace I asked him to go nice and
slowly so that other chaps in the cars
could keep up Shedden was just about ok
with that in the BTCC car but I got
dropped in the McLaren after about three
corners and after that they just
disappeared what surprised me most when
I was trying and failing to follow them
apart from the fact that the bike was in
a different legal on the main pit
straight was the extra course fee today
I mean you drive the McCleary in
isolation nothing nothing in the
universe could stay with this but in
reality there is a massive difference
between and the biggest difference of
all was at turn 7 which you can see here
at the apex the BTCC clubs doing 94
miles an hour whereas the McLaren was
understeering all over the place at a 78
model now I guess you can take the BTCC
cars arrow and it's slick tires for that
plain and simple what was really spooky
though was finding out how fast the bike
could get through the corners in most
cases it could carry at least as much
corner speed as the McLaren and in the
faster steady-state benz he could almost
live with the BTCC car and then down the
straights he just murdered them both so
in the end and despite the gang efforts
of flash and his Honda BTCC team Alex
Lowe's and his British Superbike were
undisputed king
they beat the Honda BTCC car by 2.3
seconds and thumped the McLaren or seven
seconds even when shedding clunky and
had a go to verify a letter this time
two wheels rule if you need proof take a
look at this if you're a car driver we
you